Unfortunately, picture is gonna
forget about a few things here.
So, first of all, how big is the image
location, or in other words,
the hole, in the page layout?
So, if you think about your page
at a very specific dimension,
how big is the hole that the image
is going to fit into, okay?
That we don't know as webpage authors.
And how big are the images?
If you think of this as a hole and a peg,
how big are those images
that might be displayed?
We may not necessarily know that either.
And we may not necessarily know the pixel
density of the screen if we wanna have
a retina image for those kinds of devices.
So it is possible to write
enough code to address
all of those issues, and
it's ridiculous, okay?
Nobody wants this.
[LAUGH] Right, just because you can,
doesn't mean you should, but there you go.
Okay, and I'm not even gonna explain it,
that's what it would look like.
All right, so
if you have that kind of situation,
where you're interested in
serving up the right image, and
you don't necessarily want control
over the content of that image itself,
then we have the alternative
which is srcset and sizes.
These are attributes that go
inside of the image element.
And in this case, the browser is going
to decide which image will display.
Okay, you do not get to decide.
So, generally speaking,
when people work with srcset and sizes,
we're talking about the picture
at different dimensions.
It's gonna be exactly the same photo,
it's not going to be art-directed.
In other words, showing different parts
of the image, or cropped in any way.
It's gonna be exactly the same image
at different dimensions, makes sense?
Okay, so as they say here, these
are the difference between the author
when she's writing the code and
the browser when it's loading the page.
Here's things that you need to know in
order to really optimally load an image.
You needed to know the viewport
dimensions, the image size relative to
the viewport, the screen density, and
the source file dimensions, okay?
And in some cases,
the author knows a few of these things,
the browser knows other of them,
but we don't talk to each other.
And so we have a mess, yeah?
All right, so what srcset and
sizes does is it will resolve
this particular situation.
So now the browser will know not
only the viewport dimensions and
the screen density, it will also know
the image size relative to the viewport.
And it will know the source
files dimensions, makes sense?
Okay, so again, there is a catch,
the browser is gonna decide
which of those images to load, and
it may not load the image that you expect.
Because every browser is gonna be
programmed with their own special
code, okay?
And it may not all be the same,
we know browsers, right?
So that is the thing that
you have to keep in mind.
You have to let the browser do its
own thing, don't be a control freak,
all right?
So this is the way this
code is going to look.
This is all the image element, okay?
So we have an img src, we have an img
srcset, and we have img sizes, and
we have alt text, okay?
So let's go through
what these things mean.
First of all, we have the image itself,
so img src small, that is the fallback.
If the browser doesn't
understand srcset and sizes,
this is the image it's going to display,
all right?
And the alt attribute is going to be
the same thing for all of the images.
Which is fine, because these are images
that are big, and they're small,
and they're all the same picture,
makes sense?
Okay, the srcset part of this
is gonna be the filenames and
widths of these images in pixels.
Unfortunately, you can't use
any other units, so it's 1024w,
that is 1024 pixels,
640w, that is 640 pixels.
And these are the actual dimensions
of these particular images.
So this is just like saying
the image source is large.jpeg and
the width is 1024.
If you were working with the width and
height attributes inside
of the image element.
>> And these aren't max-widths or
min-widths,
it's just-
>> This is the dimension of
the picture, right?
This is the width of this picture.
We are not dictating the hole
in which it is fitting, okay?
That comes with the next thing,
which is sizes.
This is telling it about
the size of the hole, okay?
So here's the picture and its dimensions,
here's the hole you're gonna put it into.
And so, here,
what size has been, width: 36em,
33vw, comma, 100vw.
Here's the logic there.
So if the min-width is at least 36em,
or you could do that in
pixels if you wanted,
then display the image at 33.3vw.
What does that mean?
What is 33.3vw?
>> Vertical width?
>> Viewport width, so
a third of the viewport width, right?
So if the minimum width of
the screen is at least 36em,
I'm not sure what that
translates to in pixels,
then we're gonna display the image at
the width of one-third of the viewport.
So that is how srcset and
sizes work, all right?
And that is how you would read this.
And these slides are available for
download in Chapter 12.
You may wanna download these and
keep them on file.
And you can certainly refer to
Eric Porter's excellent article on this.
It's from 2014, it's still relevant today,
this is still how it works, okay?
All right, so there's other ways you can
use the same kind of source kind of thing.
Some people have done this way, here's
my retina image will be my 2x image,
my super retina image
will be this 3x image.
And then, of course, we'll just have
our standard image as the source for
the image tag.
And as it says here, it's a nice compact
way to supply that high DPI imagery, but
this only works for fixed width images.
So if you want your image to
flex a little bit on the screen,
this is not the solution for that.
So here might wind up being some code
that you could write on this for
a picture, for example, here.
So here's an idea for
incorporating aspect ratios.
So we could load different images
that are of different sizes.
We might have 16 by 9 images
if the screen is big enough.
We might have square images for
other size screens.
And then we have our fallback picture.
So you just look at that and
go, wow, that's kind of cool.
Okay, so here I'm specifying
seven different images,
depending on what's
going on on the screen.
Now, where would you do this much work for
one image?
I don't know, maybe your big
banner image across the top, but
maybe not really much else, yeah.
>> I was actually gonna ask about, can you
query just the actual ratio, screen ratio?
>> You could try doing some aspect
ratio media queries here instead for
your picture element as well.
>> Can I skip ahead?
[LAUGH]
>> There you go.
>> Is that the next slide?
>> There you go, so there's that.
Okay, so which should you use,
picture or src and srcset?
So if you wanna use picture, you have to
start to have to answer these questions.
Is the image being optimum for content
reasons more than technical reasons,
right?
So in other words, I'm gonna take my
picture, I'm gonna take a part of it.
Because when this picture goes down this
small, I can't see that detail anymore,
for example, okay?
For the picture, the author is
going to choose the best image.
So you're gonna program it so
that the image you want to display
where you want to display it.
And those images may potentially be
very different in composition and
dimension, makes sense?
Awesome, for src and srcset,
the images are being optimized for
technical reasons more
than content reasons.
And what we mean by that is we
are doing speed optimization for
our webpage, and we want our images
to load as fast as possible.
Okay, so that would be an example
of a technical consideration.
The browser is gonna
choose the best image, and
that best image may not be the same
across all of the browsers, okay?
And those images are gonna vary in
dimension, but not in composition.
They're all gonna be exactly
the same image, makes sense?
Okay, so finally, if you were
working with background images,
and you want them to be responsive.
Because sometimes your
background images need
to tame their file sizes depending
on what device you're working on.
So here you would contain your
background images in a media query.
And if you do that,
then only one image will download,
if your images are inside
of the media query.
And then you're gonna constrain all of
your background images in specific media
queries, or multiple images may download.
So what do I mean by that?
This is what the code looks like.
So if my max-width is 700 pixels,
we're gonna load the small picture.
If it's at least 701 pixels,
we'll download the larger picture.